modern technology has developed a
patented non-toxic chemical formulation
that can be made into a light dry
insulating foam this foam is an
effective way to keep Frost and cold
weather from damaging tender plants for
up to 24 hours Kenko manufacturing has
developed the frost off line which
converts the chemical to a dry foam the
frost off line is engineered to quickly
produce large amounts of insulating foam
to cover your plants the foam is
long-lasting it keeps its volume for at
least 24 hours at temperatures below 60
degrees Fahrenheit the foam is an
excellent insulator this conserves the
heat already in the plant and the soil
protecting it from the cold air the foam
is sticky so it stays on your plants
throughout the night the non-toxic foam
is completely safe to use and is
harmless to plants our foam works for
short term cold protection it isn't
designed to protect your tender plants
for weeks at a time but in late fall or
early spring when quick Frost's or
freezes can damage or kill your plants
the foam can be priceless when there is
a forecast of frost or freezing
temperatures we recommend that you begin
to apply the foam as soon as the
temperature falls below 60 degrees
during the day of the freeze
you can apply the foam even after
temperatures have fallen below freezing
and still get excellent frost and freeze
protection you can apply the foam
continuously as a frost protector even
to the point of applying a second
blanket over a first so how does foam
work to protect your plants first the
foam is a good insulator it protects the
plant from direct contact with the cold
air second during a freeze the soil is
warmer than the air the planting bed is
likely to be 60 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit
at lower latitudes and 45 to 60 degrees
at higher latitudes when cold air rushes
in the bed begins to radiate heat upward
since the foamy blanket surrounding the
plant is at ground level the foam
captures this heat to keep the plant
warm only you can say what benefit
insulating foam could offer you but
imagine the benefit of being able to
protect live tender plants on those days
when it got just 10 degrees too cold for
your plants to survive we can give you
those 10 degrees contact Kenko
manufacturing for more information
before the cold weather rolls in